What's the role of javascript in today's world now as a side note Javascript can be run on the server
with node.
J.S. that's another roll of javascript.
A role I won't have a look at in discours because this course will focus on the front.
Javascript development.
The most typical use case of javascript use search and also the use case where we have all these frameworks
and libraries.
So let's understand how javascript works or why we use it to begin with.
We're sitting in front of our machine where the client were visiting a Web page and we do so by typing
some you are into our browser and therefore sending a request to the server.
Now server means any kind of server running any kind of server side language for example ph ph is Peter.
NET node.
JS or Oulds a Ruby on Rails Python and so on.
That doesn't matter for course the server side language doesn't matter at all.
We will have a look at the front end of javascript speaking all dead.
Right now we only sent the request.
But of course you want to get back a response.
So we probably received such a response by the server.
And typically this response holds HVM I'll document some HGL code.
Our browser can parse to create to Dom the document object model which basically is the parsed HGL code
rendered by the browser.
Now typically we don't just get back the HDMI code but this code might include some styling or javascript
or might reference some external javascript father which art and also downloaded and that's the interesting
part it includes.
It probably includes javascript of some sort and Shabbas script runs on the client.
So where our server side language is here run on the server and therefore are done at the point of time
we get back the response.
Javascript is still able to run once we are on that page and that is why Chamis script is so popular
these days.
Since it runs on the client it is able to execute code without sending a new request without us reloading
the page so we can change the page after it has been loaded and that allows us to create great user
experiences.
Whenever you see a modal open up on our page or whenever there is something dynamic whenever the page
changes at runtime there is a high chance the javascript is responsible for this that you actually did
receive a new page by the server but instead that parts of that page were changed by challe the script.
Some see as asset classes might have been changed or whole new elements were added or removed to and
from the dorm.
This is what javascript does and it is easier to use like this where we have a service side set up which
sends us back pages where we use javascript to enhance the user experience or we will have a look at
this later in the course.
There even is a pattern which becomes more and more popular where javascript runs our entire front end
creating a single page application where we only get back one page from the server and then javascript
does everything on the front end and we only send occasional behind the scenes requests of the server.
But more on that later.
But that is the role javascript plays.
It allows us to change something about the page after it has been loaded and therefore it's an important
piece in building an awesome user experience because it is very react very fast and very instant.
Now that's the role of javascript.
Let's have a look at the javascript the world next.